---
imgAlt: Whisper of the Heart
imgLink: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/9/93/Whisper_of_the_Heart_%28Movie_Poster%29.jpg
imgWidth:
imgHeight:
layout: post
title: Whisper of the Heart
author: Michael Colby
date: 2018-03-03
categories: blog
---


Alright, so, I am going to be real with you. I have been watching movies, but I
haven't been writing. I am in my last two semesters of college while holding
down an internship at the same time. But I am writing to you from the airport in
Newark, NJ right before my flight leaves for Germany. With that out of the way,
let's talk about the second film of the year.

<h2> Overview </h2>

Whisper of the Heart is the ninth film from the beloved Studio Ghibli (which is
as old as me), and if you aren't familiar with this studio then you definitely
check their work out. If you are someone who is unfamiliar with anime in general
then Studio Ghibli is also a good place for you to start to know the genre. This
film follows the school days of a girl in Japan named Shizuku who loves to
write. The movie is a really innocent look at (what would be middle school here
in the US) adolescence: the pressures of high school, expectations not only from
yourself but also society, crushes, and what magic the world has to offer. I
will say that I have a bit of a disconnect from some of the elements because I
did not grow up as a girl so I do think that this film could mean more to other
people than it did to me.

<h2> Feelings </h2>

This is also a very relaxing film. It isn't fast paced or hard to keep up with.
I don't see much rewatch value, personally, in something like that, but it would
be a very nice film to just leave on in the background while doing other things
like chores or homework or something, and when you look up from whatever you're
doing to actually see the film you may notice a new thing here or there because
of the care that Studio Ghibli puts in their films. I won't tell you that this
is the most beautiful of the Ghibli films, but that doesn't mean that is isn't
beautiful. The imagery of the mid-90s west Tokyo is very nice, and probably my
favorite set pieces in this film would be opposite of other Ghibli films: the
indoor spaces. I love the detail of the inside of the apartment Shizuku and her
family live in as well as the antique shop. They are all full of detail and just
feel real and lived in which is what really makes animation special.

<h2> Spoiler Corner </h2>

I love the resolution of this film. Okay, the marriage talk at the end seems a
little strange to me given their age, but I guess I wish them well. There is a
point when Shizuku starts to feel like she has no idea where she belongs in
life. Who hasn't felt like that? I find her conflict is very real as well as
universal. I also find that the way the Shizuku goes about trying to solve this
dilemma is to figure it out on her own because she fells like she knows what to
do. I feel like almost every kid at this age feels like they know everything and
that they can take on anything, but the film continues with its solid realism,
and lets our protagonist learn how important education is in anything that she
wants to do. I think that this is a really good message that you can achieve
your dreams as long as you put in the work and learn.
